Docs for synthetic source (#87416)
elastic/elasticsearch: docs/reference/mapping/types/ip.asciidoc

  }
}
--------------------------------------------------

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]
[[ip-synthetic-source]]
==== Synthetic source

> `ip` fields support <<synthetic-source,synthetic `_source`>> in their
> default configuration. But they don't support synthetic `_source` if you add
> <<ignore-malformed,`ignore_malformed`>>, <<copy-to,`copy_to`>>, or if you
> disable <<doc-values,`doc_values`>>.
> 
> Synthetic source will always sort `ip` fields and remove duplicates so:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`ip` fields support <<synthetic-source,synthetic `_source`>> in their default
configuration. Synthetic `_source` cannot be used together with
<<ignore-malformed,`ignore_malformed`>>, <<copy-to,`copy_to`>>, or with
<<doc-values,`doc_values`>> disabled.

Synthetic source always sorts `ip` fields and removes duplicates. For example:
```

[source,console,id=synthetic-source-ip-example]
----
PUT idx
{
  "mappings": {
    "_source": { "synthetic": true },
    "properties": {
      "ip": { "type": "ip" }
    }
  }
}
PUT idx/_doc/1
{
  "ip": ["192.168.0.1", "192.168.0.1", "10.10.12.123",
         "2001:db8::1:0:0:1", "::afff:4567:890a"]
}
----
// TEST[s/$/\nGET idx\/_doc\/1?filter_path=_source\n/]

Will become:

[source,console-result]
----
{
  "ip": ["::afff:4567:890a", "10.10.12.123", "192.168.0.1", "2001:db8::1:0:0:1"]
}
----
// TEST[s/^/{"_source":/ s/\n$/}/]

> NOTE: IPv4 addresses are sorted as though they were IPv6 addresses prefixed by
>       `::ffff:0:0:0/96` ala https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6144[rfc6144].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: IPv4 addresses are sorted as though they were IPv6 addresses prefixed by
      `::ffff:0:0:0/96`, following
      https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6144[rfc6144] guidelines.
```

Author: I'm not sure I'd call this a "guideline". Maybe I should do, but I think of it more like a "regime" or "as specified by rfc6144.

Reviewer: I think `as specified by` is perfect!
